Project for _Advanced Algorithms and Parallel Programming_ (_Politecnico di Milano_, 2023-2024)

# Alignment problem
Given two strings, $x = x_{1}, x_{2}... x_{m}$ , and $y = y_{1}, y_{2}... y_{m}$ , output the aligned strings of minimum cost.
- gap cost: 2
- replacement cost: 5

The `alignment.cpp` file includes both an iterative and a recursive solution.
The program asks the user to insert the strings X and Y and, if they're valid, it aligns them by iteratively filling the matrix of costs.<br>
At the end, the program prints the matrix cost, the aligned strings and the alignment cost.<br>

For example, if we input the strings:
 - X: **AGGGCT**
 - Y: **AGGCA**

The matrix of costs is:
|     |   | A |  G | G | C | A |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
|     |  0| 2 | 4 | 6 | 8 | 10<tr></tr>|
|**A**|  2| 0 | 2 | 4 | 6 | 8 <tr></tr>|
|**G**|  4| 2 | 0 | 2 | 4 | 6 <tr></tr>|
|**G**|  6| 4 | 2 | 0 | 2 | 4 <tr></tr>| 
|**G**|  8| 6 | 4 | 2 | 4 | 6 <tr></tr>|
|**C**| 10| 8 | 6 | 4 | 2 | 4 <tr></tr>|
|**T**| 12| 10| 8 | 6 | 4 | 6 |

The final alignment cost is 6, and the aligned strings are:
 - aligned X: **AGGGCT_**
 - aligned Y: **A_GGC_A**

## String generation
Given two numbers n and m, generate two strings composed of A, T, G, and C characters that produce the maximum alignment cost.<br>
The gap and the replacement costs are parametric.<br>
Two solution are provided.<br>

### Solution 1
The strings generated by the funtion `generateSeqDisj` don't have any letter in common, as this will surely produce the greatest alignment cost.<br>
For example, if we input the following parameters 
- gap cost: 6
- replacement cost: 5
- n: 8
- m: 7

The generated strings are:
 - X: **ACCACACA**
 - Y: **TGTGTGT**

And the result of the alignment, with cost 76, is:
- Aligned X: **\*\*\*\*\*\*\*A**
- Aligned Y: **\*\*\*\*\*\*\*\_**


### Solution 2
An additional constraint is considered: if the strings are longer than the number of available letters, they will contain all the letters at least once.
Note that given this constraint, at least one letter will be aligned in the two strings.<br>
Using the same parameters, the sequences generated by the `generateSeq` function are:
- X: **ATCGGGGG**
- Y: **GCTAAAA**

The alignment costs 66, and the aligned strings are:
- Aligned X: **\*TC\*\*\*\*\***
- Aligned Y: **\*_C\*\*\*\*\***




